Requisiti minimi per i contenuti:
Policies
Google Publisher Policies
Next: Google Publisher Restrictions
We are in the process of migrating and consolidating all of the Google Publisher Policies and Google Publisher Restrictions to the new Publisher Policies Help Center. For now, you can still view all the policies in the AdMob, AdSense, and Ad Manager Help Centers, as well as the new Help Center. 
When you monetize your content with Google ad code you are required to adhere to the following policies. Failure to comply with these policies may result in Google blocking ads from appearing against your content, or suspending or terminating your account.

These policies apply in addition to any other policies governing your use of Google publisher products.

Google helps to enable a free and open internet by helping publishers monetize their content and advertisers reach prospective customers with useful, relevant products and services. Maintaining trust in the ads ecosystem requires setting limits on what we will monetize.

Google Publisher Policies are organized into the following categories:

Content policies
Behavioral policies
Privacy-related policies
Requirements and other standards
Learn more about the commonly used policy terms and what they mean in the glossary. 
Content policies 
Illegal content
We do not allow content that:

is illegal, promotes illegal activity, or infringes on the legal rights of others.
 Learn more about illegal content

Intellectual property abuse
We do not allow content that:

infringes copyright. It is our policy to respond to notices of alleged infringement that comply with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). You can file a counter-notification via this form.
sells or promotes the sale of counterfeit products. Counterfeit goods contain a trademark or logo that is identical to or substantially indistinguishable from the trademark of another. They mimic the brand features of the product in an attempt to pass themselves off as a genuine product of the brand owner.
Learn more about intellectual property abuse

Dangerous or derogatory content
We do not allow content that:

incites hatred against, promotes discrimination of, or disparages an individual or group on the basis of their race or ethnic origin, religion, disability, age, nationality, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, or other characteristic that is associated with systemic discrimination or marginalization.
Examples: Promoting hate groups or hate group paraphernalia, encouraging others to believe that a person or group is inhuman, inferior, or worthy of being hated

harasses, intimidates, or bullies an individual or group of individuals.
Examples: Singling out someone for abuse or harassment, suggesting a tragic event did not happen or that victims or their families are actors or complicit in a cover-up of the event

threatens or advocates for physical or mental harm to oneself or others.
Examples: Content advocating suicide, anorexia, or other self-harm; threatening someone with real-life harm or calling for the attack of another person; promoting, glorifying, or condoning violence against others; content made by or in support of terrorist groups or transnational drug trafficking organizations, or content that promotes terrorist acts, including recruitment, or that celebrates attacks by transnational drug trafficking or terrorist organizations

exploits others through extortion.
Examples: Exploitative removals, revenge porn, blackmail

Learn more about dangerous and derogatory content

Animal cruelty
We do not allow content that:

promotes cruelty or gratuitous violence towards animals.
Examples: Promoting animal cruelty for entertainment purposes, such as cock or dog fighting

promotes the sale of products obtained from endangered or threatened species.
Examples: Sale of tigers, shark fins, elephant ivory, tiger skins, rhino horn, dolphin oil

Learn more about animal cruelty

Misrepresentative content
Misleading representation
We do not allow content that:

misrepresents, misstates, or conceals information about the publisher, the content creator, the purpose of the content, or the content itself.
falsely implies having an affiliation with, or endorsement by, another individual, organization, product, or service.
Examples: Impersonating Google products, misusing company logos

 Learn more about misleading representation

Unreliable and harmful claims
We do not allow content that:

makes claims that are demonstrably false and could significantly undermine participation or trust in an electoral or democratic process.
Examples: information about public voting procedures, political candidate eligibility based on age or birthplace, election results, or census participation that contradicts official government records

promotes harmful health claims, or relates to a current, major health crisis and contradicts authoritative scientific consensus.

Examples: Anti-vaccine advocacy, denial of the existence of medical conditions such as AIDS or Covid-19, gay conversion therapy

contradicts authoritative scientific consensus on climate change.

 Learn more about unreliable and harmful claims

Deceptive practices
We do not allow:

enticing users to engage with content under false or unclear pretenses.
attempting to steal personal information or trick users into sharing personal information
Example: Social engineering like phishing

promoting content, products, or services using false, dishonest, or deceptive claims.
Examples: "Get Rich Quick" schemes

coordinating with other sites or accounts and concealing or misrepresenting your identity or other material details about yourself, where your content relates to politics, social issues or matters of public concern.

directing content about politics, social issues, or matters of public concern to users in a country other than your own, if you misrepresent or conceal your country of origin or other material details about yourself.

 Learn more about deceptive practices

Manipulated media
We do not allow content that:

deceives users through manipulated media related to politics, social issues, or matters of public concern.
 Learn more about manipulated media 

Enabling dishonest behavior
We do not allow content that:

helps users to mislead others.
Examples: Creating fake or false documents such as passports, diplomas, or accreditation; sale or distribution of term papers, paper-writing or exam-taking services; information or products for passing drug tests

promotes any form of hacking or cracking and/or provides users with instructions, equipment, or software that tampers with or provides unauthorized access to devices, software, servers, or websites.

Examples: Pages or products that enable illegal access of cell phones and other communications or content delivery systems or devices; products or services that bypass copyright protection, including circumvention of digital rights management technologies; products that illegally descramble cable or satellite signals in order to get free services; pages that assist or enable users to download streaming videos if prohibited by the content provider

enables a user, or promotes products and services that enable a user, to track or monitor another person or their activities without their authorization.
Examples: Spyware and technology used for intimate partner surveillance including but not limited to spyware/malware that enables a user to monitor another person’s texts, phone calls, or browsing history; GPS trackers specifically marketed to spy or track someone without their consent; promotion of surveillance equipment (e.g. cameras, audio recorders, dash cams, nanny cams) marketed with the express purpose of spying

This does not include (a) private investigation services or (b) products or services designed for parents to track or monitor their underage children.

 Learn more about enabling dishonest behavior

Sexually explicit content
We do not allow content that:

includes graphic sexual text, image, audio, video, or games.
Examples: Sex acts such as genital, anal, and/or oral sex; masturbation; cartoon porn or hentai; graphic nudity

contains non-consensual sexual themes, whether simulated or real.
Examples: Rape, incest, bestiality, necrophilia, snuff, lolita or teen-themed pornography, underage dating

promotes the creation or distribution of content that has been altered or generated to be sexually explicit or contain nudity.
Examples: site or app that claims to generate deepfake pornography, instructions on how to create deepfake pornography, endorsing or comparing deepfake pornography services

    Learn more about sexually explicit content

Compensated sexual acts
We do not allow content that:

may be interpreted as promoting a sexual act in exchange for compensation.
Examples: Prostitution; companionship and escort services; intimate massage; cuddling sites; compensated dating or sexual arrangements where one participant is expected to provide money, gifts, financial support, mentorship, or other valuable benefits to another participant such as "Sugar" dating

     Learn more about compensated sexual acts

Mail order brides
We do not allow content that:

facilitates marriage to a foreigner.
Examples: Mail order brides, international marriage brokers, romance tours

      Learn more about mail order brides

Adult themes in family content
We do not allow content that:

is made to appear appropriate for a family audience, but contains adult themes including sex, violence, or other depictions of children or popular children’s characters that are unsuitable for a general audience.
       Learn more about adult themes in family content

Child sexual abuse and exploitation
We do not allow content that:

Sexually exploits or abuses children or content that promotes the sexual exploitation or abuse of children. This includes all child sexual abuse materials.
Endangers children. Including but not limited to:
‘Child grooming’ (for example, befriending a child online to facilitate, either online or offline, sexual contact and/or exchanging sexual imagery with that child);
‘Sextortion’ (for example, threatening or blackmailing a child by using real or alleged access to a child’s intimate images);
Sexualization of a minor (for example, content that depicts, encourages or promotes the sexual abuse or exploitation of children); and
Trafficking of a child (for example, advertising or solicitation of a child for commercial sexual exploitation).
We will take appropriate action, which may include reporting to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children and disabling accounts. If you believe a child is in danger of or has been subject to abuse, exploitation, or trafficking, contact the police immediately. If you have concerns a child is being or was being endangered in connection with our products, you can report the behavior to Google.

        Learn more about child sexual abuse and exploitation

Behavioral policies 
Dishonest declarations
Information provided by publishers to enable their use of or interaction with Google advertising systems:

must be materially accurate and complete, without misleading omissions; and
cannot be expressed in a deceptive or misleading manner.
Examples: The personal information or payment details provided by a publisher are materially incomplete, obscured or inaccurate. Information provided about a publisher’s website (e.g., in the ads.txt file) or app (e.g., in the app-ads.txt file) is inaccurate. Deceptively incomplete or inaccurate data in the ad requests such as partial or inaccurate URLs or AppIDs, incorrect geolocation, etc.

               Learn more about dishonest declarations

Ads interfering 
Google-served ads interfering with content or user interactions
We do not allow Google-served ads that:

overlay or are adjacent to navigational or other action items and may lead to unintended ad interactions,
severely interfere with consumption of content including overlaying the content or pushing the content off the display,
are placed on a "dead end" screen where the user is not able to exit the screen without clicking the ad. 
               Learn more about ads interfering

Inventory value
Google-served ads on screens without publisher-content
We do not allow Google-served ads on screens:

without publisher-content or with low-value content,
that are under construction,
that are used for alerts, navigation or other behavioral purposes
Learn more about Google-served ads on screens without publisher-content

Out of context ads
We do not allow Google-served ads:

in apps or web pages that run in the background,
that appear outside the display,
when the user's attention is expected to be elsewhere and not on the screen hosting the ad.
It must be clear to the user with which publisher-content the ad is associated.

Learn more about out of context ads

Google-served ads on screens with replicated content
We do not allow Google-served ads on screens:

with embedded or copied content from others without additional commentary, curation, or otherwise adding value to that content.
You are also required to comply with our Intellectual property abuse policy.

Learn more about Google-served ads on screens with replicated content

More ads or paid promotional material than publisher-content
We do not allow Google-served ads on screens:

with more ads or other paid promotional material than publisher-content.
Learn more about More ads or paid promotional material than publisher-content

 

 Unsupported languages
We do not allow content that:

is not primarily in one of the supported languages.
Learn more about unsupported languages

 
 
Privacy-related policies
Personalized advertising
You must not use Google's platform products or Google ad code to select or target personalized ads, or to collect or use audience data such as cookie lists, based on:

past or current activity by users known by you to be under the age of 13 years;
past or current activity by users on sites or apps or areas of sites or apps directed at children under the age of 13 years;
past or current activity by users on adult, gambling, or government agency sites or apps; or
other inferred or actual sensitive information, including, without limitation:
health or medical history or information, such as from sites or apps that market to a specific health-related group,
negative financial status or other detailed information pertaining to a person's finances, such as information indicating that a user has a low credit rating or high debt load,
racial or ethnic origins, such as from sites or apps that collect affirmative racial or ethnic identification from visitors,
religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature, such as from sites or apps that collect people’s affirmative information on religion or religious beliefs,
the commission or alleged commission of any crime, such as information indicating that a user has a criminal record,
political affiliation, such as information indicating a user’s political opinion or political ideology,
trade union membership, such as a user’s visit to a trade union’s site or app, or
sexual behavior or orientation, such as sexual orientation inferred from a user’s visit to a particular site.
In the U.S. and Canada, the following categories of products or services cannot be targeted to audiences based on gender, age, parental status, marital status, or ZIP code:

housing, such as housing listings for sale or rental, real estate services.
employment, such as ads for jobs, job recruitment sites, job listing sites. A subset of predetermined U.S. government advertisers promoting employment are permitted to target restricted audiences under specific conditions. If the targeting is based on a bona fide occupational qualification for a government job, which is defined under U.S. law as a qualification that is reasonably necessary for normal function of the job, these identified U.S. government advertisers may target restricted audiences.
offers relating to credit, banking products and services, or certain financial planning and management services. Examples: Credit cards and loans, banking and checking accounts, debt management products.
If you use Google's platform products or Google ad code for personalized advertising:

you must have all rights necessary to use audience data such as cookie lists.
advertisers must attach notices to advertisements to make clear that they are interest-based (e.g., by using an "AdChoices" icon); and
all parties must comply with applicable Internet advertising industry guidelines (e.g., the Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising of the Digital Advertising Alliance, or IAB Europe's EU Framework for Online Behavioral Advertising).
 Learn more about personalized advertising

Privacy disclosures
Publishers must:

have and abide by a privacy policy that clearly discloses any data collection, sharing, and usage that takes place as a consequence of your use of Google products and services, including information about the technologies used, such as your use of cookies, web beacons, IP addresses, or other identifiers. This applies for data collection, sharing, and usage on any platform, surface, or property (e.g., web, app, Connected TV, gaming console, or email publication). The privacy policy must disclose to users that third parties may be placing and reading cookies on your users' browsers, or using web beacons or IP addresses to collect information as a result of ad serving on your website.

To comply with this disclosure obligation with respect to Google’s use of data, you have the option to display a prominent link to How Google uses data when you use our partners’ sites or apps.
           Learn more about privacy disclosures

Cookies on Google domains
Publishers must:

not set a cookie on Google's domains or modify, intercept or delete cookies set on Google's domains.
           Learn more about cookies on Google domains

Identifying users
Publishers must:

not pass any information to Google data that Google could use or recognize as personally identifiable information
not use our services to identify users or facilitate the merging of personally identifiable information with information previously collected as non-personally identifiable information without robust notice of, and the user's prior affirmative (i.e., opt-in) consent to, that identification or merger. Irrespective of users' consent, you must not attempt to disaggregate data that Google reports in aggregate.
For more information, please refer to Guidance for complying with the Identifying Users Policy.

comply with the EU user consent policy.
           Learn more about identifying users

Use of device and location data
If publishers collect, process, or disclose information that identifies or can be used to infer an end user's precise geographic location, such as sourced from GPS, wifi or cell tower data then,

Publishers must:

disclose to the user, via an interstitial or just-in-time notice, the purposes for which their data may be used (including, ad personalization, analytics, and attribution, as applicable), including that the data may be shared with partners;
obtain express (i.e., opt-in) consent from end users before collecting, processing, or disclosing such information;
send such information to Google in an encrypted state or via an encrypted channel; and
disclose such information collection, processing, or disclosure in all applicable privacy policies.
            Learn more about use of device and location data

Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA)
If you implement any Google advertising service on an app, a site or section of a site that is covered by the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), you must:

notify Google of those sites or sections of sites covered by COPPA using the Google Search Console, tag the ad request using the AdMob SDK , or tag your site, app, or ad request for child-directed treatment;
 not use interest-based advertising (including remarketing) to target:
past or current activity by users known by you to be under the age of 13 years or
past or current activity on sites directed at users under the age of 13 years.
               Learn more about Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA)

Requirements and other standards
Spam policies for Google web search
You must not:

place Google-served ads on screens that violate the Spam policies for Google web search.
               Learn more about the Spam policies for Google web search

Abusive experiences 
You must not:

place Google-served ads on screens that contain abusive experiences.
               Learn more about abusive experiences

Malware or unwanted software
You must not:

place Google-served ads on screens that contain malicious software or "malware" that may harm or gain unauthorized access to a computer, device, or network.
Examples: Computer viruses, ransomware, worms, trojan horses, rootkits, keyloggers, dialers, spyware, rogue security software, and other malicious programs or apps

place Google-served ads on screens that violate Google's Unwanted Software policy.
Examples: Failure to be transparent about the functionality that the software provides or the full implications of installing the software; failing to include Terms of Service or an End User License Agreement; bundling software or applications without the user's knowledge; making system changes without the user's consent; making it difficult for users to disable or uninstall the software; failing to properly use publicly available Google APIs when interacting with Google services or products

   Learn more about malware or unwanted software

Better Ads Standards 
You must not:

place Google-served ads on screens that do not conform to the Better Ads Standards. For more information about the types of disallowed ad experiences, please visit the Coalition for Better Ads website.
               Learn more about Better Ads Standards

Authorized inventory
You must not:

place Google-served ads on a domain that uses ads.txt where you are not included as an authorized seller of the inventory in the ads.txt file. 
For syndication partners, Parents must ensure Children promptly add an ads.txt file to Child domains with Parents as authorized sellers of Child Inventory.

               Learn more about authorized inventory

Sanctions compliance
Google must comply with sanctions and export controls maintained by the United States Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), United States Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry & Security and other applicable  sanctions. As a result, Google publisher products are not available to publishers in the following countries or territories:

Crimea
Cuba
So-called Donetsk People's Republic (DNR) and Luhansk People's Republic (LNR) 
Iran
North Korea
Google publisher products also may not be used for or on behalf of a party located in the above listed sanctioned countries or regions. 

In addition, Google publisher products are not eligible for any entities or individuals that are restricted under applicable trade sanctions and export compliance laws. Google publisher products are not eligible for entities or individuals owned or controlled by or acting for or on behalf of such restricted entities or individuals. 

Publishers must also comply with applicable sanctions and export regulations, which includes OFAC sanctions, and agree to not cause Google to violate these regulations. You cannot use Google publisher products for or on behalf of restricted entities or individuals. You cannot use Google publisher products for or on behalf of entities or individuals located in sanctioned countries or regions.

Assicurati che il tuo sito offra contenuti esclusivi di alta qualità e una buona esperienza utente:
o monetize a site with AdSense, you should have unique and valuable content and provide a good user experience. Explore our tips here.

Provide enough unique content
For your site to be ready to show AdSense ads, make sure that your pages have enough unique content so that we can determine what your site is about. You should provide content that gives your users a reason to visit and return to your site.
Make certain that there’s no duplicate content
As stated in the Google Publisher Policies, Google ads may not be placed on sites with scraped or copyrighted content. Some examples of scraping sites include:

Sites that copy and republish content from other sites without adding any original content or value
Sites that copy content from other sites, modify it slightly (for example, by substituting synonyms or using automated techniques), and republish it
Sites dedicated to embedding content such as video, images, or other media from other sites without substantial added value to the user
Be careful when using external resources such as external articles or embedded videos. It's important that you contribute your own original content, whether it's specialist knowledge, improvement ideas, reviews, or your personal thoughts. Check that the content on your site is unique and that fragments are not copied from other sites. Also ensure that the same content is not duplicated in the same page or across multiple pages of your site.

If you have many pages that are similar or have very similar content, consider expanding each page or consolidating the pages into one. Also, try to minimize repeating long segments of text in different pages of your site, for example, instead of including lengthy copyright text on the bottom of every page, include a very brief summary and then link to a page with more details. You can use the Parameter Handling tool to specify how you would like Google to treat URL parameters.

For more tips, review our guide on how to avoid creating duplicate content.

Build a good user experience with navigational elements
Providing original content is only one component of creating a high-quality site. Your content should also be informative and organized in a manner that's easy for users to navigate. Consider the arrangement of the elements (text, images, etc.) on your pages. Your layout should look inviting and visitors should be able to easily find what they're looking for.
For subtitles in your language, turn on YouTube captions. Select the settings icon Image of YouTube settings icon at the bottom of the video player, then select "Subtitles/CC" and choose your language.

 

An accessible, easy-to-use navigation bar (or menu bar) is a key part of providing a good user experience. When building your navigation bar, consider the following points:

Alignment - Are all the navigational elements lined up correctly across all devices?
Readability - Is the text content on your site easy to read?
Functionality - Do your drop-down lists work correctly? Are all navigational elements clickable?
Accuracy - Are the elements bringing the user to the right content?
After you've added unique content to your site, don’t forget to organize it. We recommend that you structure and organize your content as follows:

Add navigational elements to the menu bar and organize your content by topic, category, etc. This will help users to better understand and navigate your site.
Avoid repeating the same content in multiple categories or pages of your site or creating multiple pages or sites with content taken from other sources.
Make sure that your site provides the information and service promised and does not have links that lead to:
False claims of downloadable or streaming content
Missing pages
Irrelevant or misleading pages
Text on a page not related to the theme or business model of the site
Ensure that your site appears correctly in different browsers.
We recommend visiting our AdSense blog post on refining your website’s user experience in 3 steps.

Submit your site for review
Lastly, don’t forget to review the AdSense Program policies to ensure that the content on your site is compliant with our policies.

Building a high-quality site takes effort and time. When you’ve addressed the above points, submit your site for review through the Sites page in your AdSense account. The review process usually takes a few days and you’ll be notified about the review results through your AdSense account.

Norme sulla qualità per i webmaster relative ai contenuti di scarso valore:
Recommended actions
First, review the following sections of our spam policies:

Thin affiliate pages
Scraped content
Doorways
Next, follow the steps below to identify and correct the violation(s) on your site:

Check for content on your site that duplicates content found elsewhere.
Check for thin content pages with affiliate links on your site.
Check for doorway pages on your site.
If your site contains any of these types of content, think about whether your site provides significant added value for your users. 
Tip: Consider asking friends or family — real people not affiliated with your site — to use or critique your site to get ideas for improving it.
Improve your website so that it provides significant value for your users.
When you're sure that your site is no longer in violation of our spam policies, select Request Review on the Manual Actions report. Provide examples of bad content that you removed and good content that you added.
After you've submitted a reconsideration request, be patient and watch for review status messages in your Search Console account — we'll let you know when we've reviewed your site. If we determine that your site is no longer in violation of our spam policies, we'll revoke the manual action.

Norme sulla qualità per i webmaster
Spam policies for Google web search
You must not:

place Google-served ads on screens that violate the Spam policies for Google web search